# PowerBi-Dash-Report
This is a Dashboard/Report that I created in PowerBI. I have to update the data from a SQL server and then rebuild the report on a monthly basis and the present these to a group of executives and administrators. I have been recreating these reports and printing a copy for all of the members of the meeting monthly. I realized that after a couple of months of this process that there is a lot time and resources wasted to show some data that is important during the presenation, but then the printed reports are either filed away or thrown out. Thus, I created an interactive dashboard that will allow me to update the data in the SQL server and then refresh the report with the updated data. This will then be used to share on a big screen and through an online meeting. The interested parties will be able to review the information and we will be able to dig deeper through the interactive ability of the dashboard to show filtered data without recreating the reports and reprinting new printouts. I believe this will save a lot of time, resources, and money for the company and will be a more useful tool. 
This Dashboard/Report is a break down of three different datasets. 
- The first dataset is an 18 month period of data regarding the patients seen (with PHI removed) and what their payer source is (whether private insurance, gov't insurance, or self pay/insured). This data can be broken down by payer source, month, and even clinic location. 
- The second dataset is similar to the first one, but it is all based on new patients that have seen one of our providers for the first time in the last 18 months. This data has had PHI removed as well. This data can be broken down and drilled down to see what the payer of the new patients are as well as where they visited a provider.
- The third dataset is a break down of the last 12 months of the number of charges that have been billed as well as the amount of the billed charges. This data can be broken down by which payer was billed as well as which clinic the charges are being created in.

All of this data combined give the organization a view of where we are at over the last 12-18 months and see if we are trending in any direction regarding new patients, current patients, or the amount of charges being billed. If the numbers of new patients grows in any specific payer category we can drill down to see how that is affecting us as an organization when it comes to billed charges and our possible expected payments from different payer sources. The biggest group of information this Dashboard/Report shows us on a monthly basis is whether our self pay population is growing faster than our insured. As a non-profit we need to make sure that we continue to have a good patient ratio so that we can stay in operation.
